Organization and Content update to the README (#29)
spokestack/spokestack-python: README.md

# Spokestack Python

<p align="center">
  <img width="100" height="100" src="images/spokestack.png">
</p>

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/spokestack/spokestack-python)](https://github.com/spokestack/spokestack-python/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/pylon/streamp3.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/spokestack/spokestack-python)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/spokestack.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/spokestack)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/spokestack/spokestack-python/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/spokestack/spokestack-python?branch=master)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/spokestack/spokestack-python?style=social)](https://github.com/spokestack/spokestack-python/stargazers)
![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/spokestack/spokestack-python?style=social)
![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/spokestack?style=social)

> Welcome to Spokestack Python! This library is intended for developing [voice interfaces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_user_interface) in Python. This can include anything from [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/) applications like traditional smart speakers to [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) web applications. Literally anything built in [Python](https://www.python.org/) can be given a voice interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to Spokestack Python! This library is intended for developing [voice interfaces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_user_interface) in Python. This can include anything from [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/) applications like traditional smart speakers to [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) web applications. *Anything* built in [Python](https://www.python.org/) can be given a voice interface.
```

## Get Started

### System Dependencies

There are some system dependencies that need to be downloaded in order to install spokestack via pip.

#### macOS

```shell
brew install lame portaudio
```

#### Debian/Ubuntu

```shell
sudo apt-get install portaudio19-dev libmp3lame-dev
```

#### Windows

We currently do not support Windows 10 natively, and recommend you install [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) with the Debian dependencies. However, if you would like to work on native Windows support we will glady accept pull requests.

Another potential avenue for using `spokestack` on Windows 10 is from [anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/). This is without support for Text To Speech (TTS) though due to the Lame dependency. PortAudio, on the other hand, can be installed via `conda`.

```shell
conda install portaudio
```

### Installation with pip

Once system dependencies have been satisfied, you can install the library with the following.

```shell
pip install spokestack
```

## Usage

> ### Setup

Reviewer 2: The setup and TF sections feel more like part of `Get Started` rather than `Usage` since we're still talking about dependencies.

We use `pyenv` for virtual environments. Below you will find the step-by-step commands to install a virtual environment.

```shell
pyenv install 3.8.6
pyenv virtualenv 3.8.6 spokestack
pyenv local spokestack
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Install Tensorflow

This library requires a way to run [TFLite](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite) models. There are two ways to add this ability. The first is installing the full [Tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) library.

The full Tensorflow package is installed with the following:

```shell
pip install tensorflow
```

#### TFLite Interpreter (Embedded Devices)

> In use cases where you require a small footprint, such as on a Raspberry pi or similar embedded devices, you will want to install the TFLite Interpreter. You can install it for your platform by [following the instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/guide/python#install_just_the_tensorflow_lite_interpreter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In use cases where you require a small footprint, such as on a Raspberry Pi or similar embedded devices, you will want to install the TFLite Interpreter. You can install it for your platform by [following the instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/guide/python#install_just_the_tensorflow_lite_interpreter).
```
Just for consistency with the previous mention.

> In use cases where you require a small footprint, such as on a raspberry pi or similar embedded devices, you will want to install the TFLite Interpreter. You can install it for your platform by following [the instructions here](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/guide/python#install_just_the_tensorflow_lite_interpreter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In use cases where you require a small footprint, such as on a Raspberry pi or similar embedded devices, you will want to install the TFLite Interpreter. You can install it for your platform by [following the instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/guide/python#install_just_the_tensorflow_lite_interpreter).
```

### Speech Pipeline

> The Speech Pipeline is the module that ties together VAD, Wakeword, and ASR. The VAD (voice activity detection) listens to a frame of audio captured by the input device to determine if speech is present. If it is, the Wakeword model processes subsequent frames of audio looking for its keyword. If the keyword is found, the pipeline is activated and converts the following audio into a transcript. The Speech Pipeline is initialized like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Speech Pipeline is the module that ties together VAD (voice activity detection), wakeword, and ASR (automated speech detection). The VAD listens to a frame of audio captured by the input device to determine if speech is present. If it is, the wakeword model processes subsequent frames of audio looking for the keyword it has been trained to recognize. If the keyword is found, the pipeline is activated and performs speech recognition, converting the subsequent audio into a transcript. The Speech Pipeline is initialized like this:
```

wake = WakewordTrigger("path_to_tflite_model")
asr = SpeechRecognizer("spokestack_id", "spokestack_secret")

pipeline = SpeechPipeline(mic, [vad, wake, asr])
pipeline.start()
pipeline.run()
```

Now that the pipeline is running, it becomes important to access the results from processes at certain events. For example, when speech is recognized there is a `recognize` event. These events allow code to be executed outside the pipeline in response. The process of registering a response is done with a pipeline callback, which we will cover in the next section.

#### Pipeline Callbacks

Pipeline callbacks allow additional code to be executed when a speech event is detected. For example, we can print when the pipeline is activated by registering a function with the `pipeline.event` decorator.

```python
@pipeline.event
def on_activate(context):
    print(context.is_active)
```

One of the most important use cases for a pipeline callback is accessing the ASR transcript for additional processing by the NLU. The transcript is accessed with the following:

```python
@pipeline.event
def on_recognize(context):
    print(context.transcript)
```

### Natural Language Understanding (NLU)

> Natural Language Understanding turns an utterance into a machine readable format. For our purposes, this is joint intent detection and slot filling. You can read more about the concepts [here](https://www.spokestack.io/docs/concepts/nlu). We like to think of intents as the action a user desires from an application, and slots as the optional arguments to fulfill the requested action. Our NLU model is initialized like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Natural Language Understanding turns an utterance into structured data a machine can act on. For our purposes, this is joint intent detection and slot filling. You can read more about the concepts [here](https://www.spokestack.io/docs/concepts/nlu). We like to think of intents as the action a user desires from an application, and slots as the optional arguments to fulfill the requested action. Our NLU model is initialized like this:
```

The fact that it's so hard to define this in a way that makes it sound like a useful addition should be a red flag to the community that maybe their current approach doesn't add that much value...

## Get Started

### System Dependencies

There are some system dependencies that need to be downloaded in order to install spokestack via pip.

#### macOS

```shell
brew install lame portaudio
```

#### Debian/Ubuntu

```shell
sudo apt-get install portaudio19-dev libmp3lame-dev
```

#### Windows

We currently do not support Windows 10 natively, and recommend you install [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) with the Debian dependencies. However, if you would like to work on native Windows support we will glady accept pull requests.

Another potential avenue for using `spokestack` on Windows 10 is from [anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/). This is without support for Text To Speech (TTS) though due to the Lame dependency. PortAudio, on the other hand, can be installed via `conda`.

```shell
conda install portaudio
```

### Installation with pip

Once system dependencies have been satisfied, you can install the library with the following.

```shell
pip install spokestack
```

> ## Development

Reviewer 2: Typically, a "development" section in a library readme is for people contributing to the library, not using it.

Author: what should I call this instead?

Author: I ended up calling it. "Using the Library"

### Setup

We use `pyenv` for virtual environments. Below you will find the step-by-step commands to install a virtual environment.

```shell
pyenv install 3.8.6
pyenv virtualenv 3.8.6 spokestack
pyenv local spokestack
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Install Tensorflow

This library requires a way to run [TFLite](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite) models. There are two primary ways to add this ability. The first, is installing the full [Tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) library. In most instances you should be able to install this with `pip`, but in the case of any installation issues follow the installation [guide](https://www.tensorflow.org/install).

#### Tensorflow

The full Tensorflow package is installed with the following:

```shell
pip install tensorflow

> ```

Author: I think you are better off covering that the library requires a way to run tensorflow models than specifying which parts need tensorflow. Saying tensorflow is required needs to be written one time, but specifying the components will change over time.

> ```

Reviewer 2: It's a bias I have from focusing on modularity in the Android library—if people only want to use ASR and TTS, they don't need TF. This is maybe less of a concern in Python, where there's no high-quality "on-device" ASR that comes with the platform by default.

> #### TFLite Iterpreter (Embedded Devices)

Author: "Interpreter" I'll fix this.

In use cases where you require a small footprint, such as on a raspberry pi or similar embedded devices, you will want to install the TFLite Interpreter. You can install it for your platform by following the instructions at [TFLite Interpreter](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/guide/python#install_just_the_tensorflow_lite_interpreter).

### Audio Input

We offer a [PyAudio](https://people.csail.mit.edu/hubert/pyaudio/) interface for audio input. You can initialize it like this:

```python
from spokestack.io.pyaudio import PyAudioInput

mic = PyAudioInput()
mic.start()
frame = mic.read()
```

### Voice Activity Detection (VAD)

Voice activity detection listens to a frame of audio and determines if a voice is present. Our VAD uses [WebRTC](https://github.com/wiseman/py-webrtcvad). To initialize the VAD, add the following:

```python
from spokestack.vad.webrtc import VoiceActivityTrigger

vad = VoiceActivityTrigger()
```

### Wakeword Detection

> Also known as keyword spotting (kws), wakeword is the way to get your applications attention with voice. This is normally through a specific keyword or phrase. The default wakeword for this library is "Spokestack". Wakeword can be added like this:

Author: It's the only model included in a spokestack account by default. it's the wakeword for all of the tutorials. it's the default wakeword. This seems like an arbitrary distinction.

> Also known as keyword spotting (kws), wakeword is the way to get your applications attention with voice. This is normally through a specific keyword or phrase. The default wakeword for this library is "Spokestack". Wakeword can be added like this:

Reviewer 2: The difference is that the library provides a way to _run_ wakeword detection, not a wakeword itself. The library is code; the wakeword models are data. We give out one wakeword for free, so it's the one we use in the tutorials, but we don't distribute it with the libraries themselves, so the libraries don't _have_ a wakeword by default (you can't use a wakeword in your app without a separate download); they just have a component capable of using the models.

Like I said, it's a nitpick as far as readme wording goes (once you add the links to the wakeword models so that people don't assume it works out of the box); I'm just usually biased toward precision, sometimes overly so.

> Also known as keyword spotting (kws), wakeword is the way to get your applications attention with voice. This is normally through a specific keyword or phrase. The default wakeword for this library is "Spokestack". Wakeword can be added like this:

Author: It might be better to make it work out of the box.

```python
from spokestack.wakeword.tflite import WakewordDetector

wake = WakewordDetector("path_to_tflite_model")
```

### Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)

Automatic Speech Recognition is a technique used to turn speech into a transcript. You can initialize our cloud ASR with:

```python
from spokestack.asr.spokestack.speech_recognizer import SpeechRecognizer

asr = SpeechRecognizer("spokestack_id", "spokestack_secret")
```

> ### Speech Pipeline

Author: that makes sense. I really didn't know how to arrange it so thanks. I will remember this.

pip install spokestack
```

> ## Using the Library

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that works. I'd personally go with "usage" (shorter/consistent with other platforms), but this means the same.

In use cases where you require a small footprint, such as on a raspberry pi or similar embedded devices, you will want to install the TFLite Interpreter. You can install it for your platform by following [the instructions here](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/guide/python#install_just_the_tensorflow_lite_interpreter).

### Speech Pipeline

> The Speech Pipeline is the component that ties together VAD, Wakeword, and ASR. Essentially, this component listens to a frame of audio to determine if speech is present. If speech is detected, the Wakeword model processes the subsequent frames of audio looking for the specific keyword. If the keyword is found, the pipeline is activated and converts the following audio into a transcript. The Speech Pipeline is established like this from the previous initialized components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Speech Pipeline is the module that ties together VAD, Wakeword, and ASR. The VAD (voice activity detection) listens to a frame of audio captured by the input device to determine if speech is present. If it is, the Wakeword model processes subsequent frames of audio looking for its keyword. If the keyword is found, the pipeline is activated and converts the following audio into a transcript. The Speech Pipeline is initialized like this:
```

Edited slightly for consistency with the terminology in the other platforms and because changing the order of the paragraphs changes what needs to be defined/introduced a bit.

```python
from spokestack.io.pyaudio import PyAudioInput
from spokestack.pipeline import SpeechPipeline
from spokestack.vad.webrtc import VoiceActivityTrigger
from spokestack.asr.spokestack.speech_recognizer import SpeechRecognizer

mic = PyAudioInput()
vad = VoiceActivityTrigger()
asr = SpeechRecognizer("spokestack_id", "spokestack_secret")

pipeline = SpeechPipeline(mic, [vad, wake, asr])
pipeline.start()
pipeline.run()
```

#### Pipeline Callbacks

Pipeline callbacks allow additional code to be executed when a speech event is detected. For example, we can print when the pipeline is activated by registering a function with the `pipeline.event` decorator.

```python
@pipeline.event
def on_activate(context):
    print(context.is_active)
```

> ### Audio Input

Reviewer 2: Now that the structure has been flipped, there's actually little need to go over initialization of the individual components since it's all in the first section. You could have a "Pipeline components" section where you give some more details on each component, or you could get rid of the individual component explanations altogether in favor of some more detail on pipeline callbacks, which are what people need to know about in order to get the ASR transcripts. Right now, there are instructions on how to set up the pipeline, but not too much on how to make use of it.

If you do keep the sections on individual components, they should at least be demoted a header level or two so they're not as prominent as the pipeline, NLU, and TTS.

### Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)

Automatic Speech Recognition is a technique used to turn speech into a transcript. For this part you will need to create an account [here](https://www.spokestack.io/create) if you already haven't. You can initialize our cloud ASR with:

```python
from spokestack.asr.spokestack.speech_recognizer import SpeechRecognizer

asr = SpeechRecognizer("spokestack_id", "spokestack_secret")
```

### Natural Language Understanding (NLU)

> Natural Language Understanding turns an utterance into a machine readable format. For our purposes, this is joint intent detection and slot filling. You can read more about the concepts [here](https://www.spokestack.io/docs/concepts/nlu). We like to think of intents as the action a user desires from an application, and slots as the optional arguments to fulfill the requested action. Our NLU model is initialized like this:

Reviewer 2: How does this fit in with the pipeline introduced above?

Author: I guess it doesn't without the Spokestack abstraction.

Reviewer 2: Oh, I wasn't suggesting that it _doesn't_ fit, just that a snippet that uses the NLU in a pipeline transcript callback would be helpful to the reader.

The Spokestack abstraction is another layer of developer ergonomics, but the library's totally usable without it, especially in Python where initialization of the separate components doesn't take up a screen of code all by itself.

Author: so I guess what would be good for the readme is like an abridged tutorial. overview of all the features, but super brief.

Reviewer 2: That's what I find most useful in a readme. As @noelweichbrodt has pointed out, this holds the potential for getting out of sync with the codebase, so sticking to the highest conceptual level possible is best, but I still think it's good to give just enough depth that the readme can provide a working, paste-able example of the library's main value proposition(s).

Link to the docs for more details, but provide enough value in the readme that the reader _wants_ to make that extra click.

Author: ok I think I understand. sorry this was such a big deal.

Reviewer 2: No problem at all—I hate to keep asking for changes, but I have...strong opinions about words (and like to present as unified a front as possible across the platforms).
